>>REGINA MEREDITH:
A primary focus
with the alternative
media community
has been to rage
against the empire.
But what if the empire
exists because of us?
Neil Kramer says we
need to look at our part
in the creation of empire.
And, it is.
I mean, whether you're
Star Warsing it or whatnot,
the notion of empire has
become increasingly daunting
as the population at
large becomes more aware.
And we can't say
everyone, but certainly
the leading edge thinkers are
becoming more aware of it.
But you have a completely
different story
around what empire is.
So, first of all, let's launch
into your definition of what
empire is versus
the classic kind
of conspiratorial or new-age
community version of empire.
>>NEIL KRAMER: To
me, empire is better
thought of as a
way, as an ethos,
rather than a thing
or a group of people.
And I think that
when you consider it
as a methodology
rather than a thing,
it leads us in sort of
healthier direction.
So I see it essentially
as something
that happens when we start
to disown our own journey
and our own self.
So empire is a symptom
of our disregard
for our own spiritual journey.
And there are players in that,
and there's many different
kinds of beings and humans
and non-physical things
and intelligences, and the
Egyptians and the Romans
and the British
and the Americans--
>>REGINA: And we're going
to get into some of this
specifically in a little bit.
>>KRAMER: Sure.
Yeah.
But there's many factors to it.
But the primary thing
is to understand
that empire is a way of
doing things that takes over
when we don't determine
that for ourselves.
So to not do it for
yourself-- that is,
decide what you want to do
with your life and your mind
and your heart and your spirit.
If you don't do that,
the default wiring
is to be a subject of empire.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
If you don't make choices,
someone will do it for you.
>>KRAMER: Right.
>>REGINA: And so
another key factor
in the success and the endurance
of empire is invisibility.
>>KRAMER: Mmm.
Yeah.
Good point.
I would say that the
invisibility of empire
is its greatest strength.
People worry about
the technology
that they, quote, have and
all the sort of resources
and finances available to them.
Sacred old cryptic knowledge
and just sheer processing power
of modern computers and
knowledge and communications
make it seem like this
vast, incredible thing.
I don't think it is.
In my intuitive faculty,
I don't see that.
And in my knowledge, I
don't come across that.
I think empire's
rather a slender thing.
But it's invisible.
And when you're
invisible, you can
afford to be
slender, as it were,
because you can get
away with a lot.
People don't know it exists.
They don't see it.
So people struggle
to even approach
the manifestation of
an invisible thing.
If we can't see it and feel
it and touch it and smell it,
the suspicion is
it doesn't exist.
And with empire,
initially, if you're
going at it through your
mainstream education
and your mainstream parenting
and your mainstream workplace,
there is no such
thing as empire.
So people don't want to
approach something that's
going to create this incredible
problem, where they're
going to acknowledge--
some people.
Your audience is a
little different.
But in the mainstream,
for the first time,
there are invisible
forces at play.
And conspiracy doesn't
even come into it--
just that there are invisible
forces that shape human life.
People don't want
to know about that.
They just want to have some
nice diversions and pleasures,
you know?
>>REGINA: Oh, yes.
And that's on us.
>>KRAMER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: We've checked out.
We're overwhelmed,
so we're lazy.
>>KRAMER: That's our fault.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: That's our fault.
>>KRAMER: So I would
say that empire,
if you take a really
zoomed out view of it,
you could consider it as a
magnet or an impulse-generator
to say, if you go to sleep,
you can't do it indefinitely
because this demon
arises, which you
are consenting to
the existence of.
>>REGINA: And when you
look at it that way,
there are symbols that represent
that demon, so to speak.
And there are
common symbols-- it
can be anything from the
notion of faces of stars
to the dollar sign or the
pound symbol, or so forth.
>>KRAMER: Right.
>>REGINA: So these exist.
But I think one of the things
that a lot of our viewers
are aware of, or would
certainly suspect, anyway,
is that empire actually
exists far behind the symbols.
Even the faces we
see, whether it's
a Rockefeller or a
Rothschild, even,
really that's not
where empire exists.
It's something
beyond that, right?
>>KRAMER: I think so.
I think you have to
take into account
that there are administrators
of empire-- powerful families
who have ushered
it into existence
in an administrative way
through finance and the economy
and the military
and the compulsion
to live in a mercantile
world, to live in a world
where everything has to
be a product or a service,
is a method of empire.
And that's what the human
beings take care of.
And if you don't
know what else to do,
you become merely a merchant.
And that's this great
secret of empire.
And it's admissible.
It's not too death-defyingly
horrible to say
I have found myself in
this life as a human being,
parachuting into this
existence as a merchant.
It's not dreadful, and
yet it doesn't give us
any breadth to be a human being.
And that's the great
trick of empire.
>>REGINA: Not the
full expression
of human being, any of it.
>>KRAMER: No.
It's just to be a businessman.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: That's what
we're asked to be.
You've got to be a
businessman, a businesswoman
to survive and exist.
And whether you're
a painter or a poet,
or whether you're a
plumber or an electrician,
you have to be a businessman,
otherwise you can't do it.
So the real esoteric angle
is that the light that
exists in a person, the kind of
metaphysical juice, the power,
the life force, the chi,
whatever you want to call it,
is kind of a power source.
And that can be harvested,
and it can be used,
and it can be channeled.
And I think that's
the game, really.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And I know that you do
look at it as a game.
>>KRAMER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And I want to go
one other place with this,
and then I want to get
into the game of it.
Because there's a really
poignant aspect of the game.
And I'm still trying to get my
mind around the way you view it
in that it almost sounds
like you're saying, because
of our own default
position in life,
that it's some
self-organizing thing.
But I think you could also
argue it's not self-organizing.
This is organized and
orchestrated from somewhere,
right?
>>KRAMER: Yes.
I think so.
I think it's hard to deny that.
Our greatest ways
of examining it
is to look at Egypt and Rome.
And if you look at what was
achieved during that epoch--
>>REGINA: Let's talk
about it, and do
that overlay to what's
going on now, in empire now.
>>KRAMER: So essentially a
hierarchical distribution
of knowledge, not based on
merit, but based on blood.
So if you have the
right bloodline
and you come from the right
aristocratic-- or as we
say today the elite
lines or families-- then
you're given access to certain
knowledge and resources.
There's a parallel thing
to that, which is also
based on hierarchy, but
it's based on merit.
And that's open to everybody.
So if you prove that you're
moral and ethical and strong
and pure enough,
you are initiated
into certain kinds
of sacred knowledge,
certain kinds of information and
certain practices, physically,
that change reality.
And that requires an
enormous responsibility.
And all the empire's
trying to do
is sequester that old process
and have it not based on merit,
but based on blood.
And that's why this rigorous
protection of the bloodlines
to say this is a way that
we do it through the family.
Unfortunately, it lacks merits.
It lacks balance.
It lacks the cohesion
of light and dark.
And it tends to destruction,
and it tends to negativity.
So in my mystical
education, the understanding
that destruction is a primary
force is very important.
But if you tip too much into
it, destruction becomes the way.
So you have a period of
creation and then a period
of destruction.
You go round and
round and round.
They're missing two factors--
a bit esoteric, this,
but-- they're missing
the time to be solid
and the time to be yielding.
And without that, this
is what empire does.
It has 4,000 years, and then it
destroys itself and then arises
from the ashes again.
And we're just on the
brink of that again now.
And the point for us
is that it doesn't
have to be that way, as long
as we embody our own authority.
But if you look around the
streets and the schools
and the homes, that's
not talked about.
People don't understand what
it is to be your own authority
or be your own person.
They don't really understand it.
>>REGINA: It is a
big responsibility.
And it's not necessarily
made to be understood
in any of our structures
that exist from family on,
because the parents don't know.
>>KRAMER: No.
>>REGINA: And, you know,
there's thought on this.
I was talking to
someone recently,
who happens to be a friend
and an interviewee--
which, I become friends with
a lot of the people that
sit across from me.
And he was saying when you
look at the actual percentages
of each-- you have a solar
system, you have a cosmos,
you have planets.
And in each planet, there
are learning opportunities.
And there's a distribution
of knowledge, so to speak.
>>KRAMER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And one of
the things he was saying
was that it remains
roughly the same.
The people, for example,
watching this program
are obviously
seekers of knowledge.
And there's always a percentage
of the population that
are genuinely
seekers of knowledge.
And then there's
the percentage that
might be sitting on the
edge, toying with the idea.
And then you have kind
of everybody else,
and then those who are in
total resistance and just
do not choose on
any level to engage.
And so can that actually shift?
We keep saying we're going to
become more awake as a planet
and so forth, as a species.
In your mind, what
does that look like?
>>KRAMER: There's a very
esoteric answer, indeed,
to that if you want to
go down that pathway.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Absolutely.
>>KRAMER: All right.
There is the thought among
some hermetic mystical schools
today--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: --and in ages
gone by that there's always
a very small number of ensouled
human beings on the planet.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: And the rest of the
people here are thought forms,
or, as they say in other
areas, tulpas-- T-U-L-P-A.
And that those thought forms
have their own existence
and have being and have
sentience and have a right
to life just like anyone else.
But they don't have the soul
lineage that some people do.
It's a different kind of man,
a different kind of human.
And earth school, as
you kind of infer,
is a specific lesson
in resolving polarity.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: That the whole
reason we come here
is to seek resolution
of polarity
through a thing we call
spiritual development.
And all the actors and
all the theatrical players
and the stage and the
audience is all artificial,
rather like this set up here.
>>REGINA: Rather like
our politics today--
>>KRAMER: Rather like politics.
>>REGINA: --that makes
the news like ISIS.
>>KRAMER: Well, the
politics is artificial,
and it doesn't
help us very much.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: This is
artificial, but it helps us
because it gives a focal
point and we can distribute
some conscious media in
a specific kind of way.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: What people
don't like to hear
is that a lot of
the stuff is unreal.
So rather than saying empire and
new world order and the elites
and the Illuminati-- I
just call it unreality.
And it's a statement, then,
that's rather neutral.
It doesn't have that kind
of melodramatic negativity
associated with it.
It's something rather different.
And if you consider
it as unreal,
you're then moving into
much healthier territory
of the examination of maya--
that all of the objects
don't really exist.
And some of the people
That's a healthy territory.
>>REGINA: It actually
is, even if it's
hard to get one's mind
around that notion.
If you go with that
kind of precept,
it does make life
a little easier
to navigate in that sense.
>>KRAMER: It's more
philosophical rather
than combative.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And I did a show recently
with Nigel Taylor.
I don't know if you
know him at all,
but that was the nature of
that conversation, which
is this is an illusion.
And if you look at it
from even Tom Campbell's
point of view, the
theory of everything--
>>KRAMER: He's a good bloke.
>>REGINA: Isn't he wonderful?
>>KRAMER: He's good, yeah.
>>REGINA: And as
he's saying, this
is a collectively
rendered reality
that we have all agreed upon.
>>KRAMER: Yeah.
Sure.
>>REGINA: We've
agreed this crystal is
this crystal, for example.
>>KRAMER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And so what you
just said makes a lot of sense
within the context of that.
>>KRAMER: It does.
We've created an enemy.
It has its own creation as well.
And as I said earlier,
there are very
esoteric Christian
and Gnostic and Taoist
and esoteric Sufi myths
and legends and stories
and-- let's use a
better word-- histories
that say some of the
beings responsible
here created this
place in error,
and the error is embedded
into all the forms-- into me
and you and all the
things around us.
And that's part of the
beauty of this earth school,
is that that error is
inherently magnetizing us
towards the resolution
of polarity.
So it's as if-- we'll
speak a little flippantly
for a moment-- as
if God is seeing
one of his wayward angels
create this solar system,
and make a mistake,
and get it wrong
and create shame and horror
and injustice and imperfection.
Really that's the
word-- imperfection.
And rather than just erase it
and rub it out from existence,
the big guy sat back and
thought, you know what?
That's actually
really interesting,
because everyone that
goes there comes out
with this super ninja
spiritual juju which we've not
seen anywhere else
in the system.
I'm going to keep that error
in the construction of Earth
and see how people deal with it.
>>REGINA: Yes, and that's
the basis of the Urantia work
to a large extent, too--
>>KRAMER: Right.
>>REGINA: --is understanding
that beings in other domains
look at this experiment,
so to speak--
>>KRAMER: And go, wow.
>>REGINA: --and
say, competition?
Whoa.
Look what competition
does to the human being,
for good-- better or for worse.
Look at what it does.
And any species that can
survive in an environment
of competition and polarity
has probably the most
profound learning
of any possibility
within the universe.
>>KRAMER: It does.
Because first you
have to survive it,
and then, more so, you
have to resolve it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: You can't
just keep surviving it.
You have to come to a point
where there's a resolution,
and that is a
spiritual question that
encompasses philosophy and
psychology and metaphysics
and all those lovely things.
And we have to
examine the phenomena.
So it's part of spiritual
life to look at empire.
If you don't,
you're missing out.
You can't just eat salad and
do Qigong or whatever things.
I enjoy thatm and I enjoy that.
But the shadow work
puts us in touch
with the very root
of what this is.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: So you have to have
a very healthy and balanced
attitude about bringing
both of them into life.
And it's not just an
abstract thing out there.
It's what's happening in
the home and in the kitchen
and in the bedroom and
in the bathroom, right?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: It's really super
intimate, this shadow.
Empire is in the home.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And we reflect that
throughout our lives,
and then we pass that on to our
children who reflect that out
through their lives.
>>KRAMER: We do.
>>REGINA: OK.
So one thing about
the illusion is--
and you mentioned
it a moment ago.
It is, essentially, a game that
we have to learn to navigate.
And one of the things that
strikes me about anything
having to do with
game-- I automatically
go to the notion or
metaphor of a chess board.
And yes, you have the
queen and the king
and the knights and
the power players.
But in reality,
it's often the pawns
that determine the
outcome of a game.
And if we are the pawns, how can
we-- you see what I'm saying?--
use our own presence on the
planet by sheer strength
of numbers to change the game?
>>KRAMER: Good question.
Really, really good question.
The pawns do determine the
whole flow of the game.
So those opening
moves or whatever--
you know, two squares
here and this guy
and this guy and this guy.
Before any knights or
any rooks or whatever
start to zip around the
board, those pawns radically
affect the nature of the
campaign, of the conflict,
right?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: So if you realize
your power as a pawn
and you're not looking behind
you thinking, oh, well,
it's the queen
with all the power.
That's an ironic
statement, really,
isn't it, where I come from.
>>REGINA: [LAUGH]
>>KRAMER: But if you're tempted
to think that we're just
these little things that get
zapped in the campaign, but no.
Actually, you're of equal
value to everything else.
But it's how you
consider yourself.
And if you look at some
chess games online--
I remember watching
a Garry Kasparov
thing live with Nigel Short
many years ago in the '90s.
It was the pawns
chasing each other
around the board that was
the most exciting thing
of this whole tournament.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: And they totally
determined the outcome.
And it was a lovely lesson
in precisely what you're just
talking about, which is to
understand the king, in a way,
is the weakest
piece on the board.
The queen has the greatest
breadth of movement.
>>REGINA: Mhm.
>>KRAMER: And yet,
it's completely
determined by the
front line, right?
>>REGINA: It is.
Yes.
In fact, my son was teaching
me a play the other day,
or a couple weeks ago, which
is checkmate in three moves.
But it's all about the pawns.
>>KRAMER: Yeah, it is.
>>REGINA: It's all
about the pawns.
And, of course, it
only works on someone
that's never heard of
that particular move.
>>KRAMER: It does.
It does.
>>REGINA: It works
perfectly then.
>>KRAMER: You're waiting for
that mistake so you can play
your--
>>REGINA: You just
execute those,
and it's pretty much checkmate.
And I thought-- and that's
what made me think of it, too.
It was so powerful.
But it was just the movement
of the pawns-- clever movement
of the pawns.
And what you just said
a moment ago-- the queen
has the breadth of movement.
Well, how does the
feminine now start
flowing into the
conversation of empire,
and essentially
transcending empire?
Because that's a very
male-dominant paradigm.
>>KRAMER: Yeah.
The key for women is
not to be like men.
[LAUGH] It's a very simple
statement, that, but--
>>REGINA: Please, continue.
>>KRAMER: In the business
world, where I spent many years,
the successful women
had to be like men.
And they had to play with the
men and dress like the men
and smell like the men
and walk like the men
and drive men's cars.
>>REGINA: Oh, unfortunately.
>>KRAMER: I know.
It's very unpleasant.
And I think as there is
with men at the moment,
there's an identity
crisis amongst a lot
of female philosophers and
metaphysicians and healers
and so on and so forth.
Where if you go to
the places where
there are a lot of speakers
and a lot of people who
are prepared to get up on a
stage, grab the microphone,
and orate and talk and
deliver a kind of monologue,
there aren't many
women who do that.
Women work in a different way.
They do it in groups.
They want to do
one-to-one a lot.
There's a different
kind of presence
with that, which isn't catered
for in the male-dominated
mercantile world.
>>REGINA: It is not.
>>KRAMER: So you have
to create the very space
that a woman is
going to operate in.
Women have to create that space.
Don't go and compete
on the men's stage,
because that's rubbish
anyway, quite frankly.
So the healthiest
things I've seen
is where groups get together
and they have male groups
and they have female
groups and they have,
like-- whatever you call it.
Coed groups?
Is that the phrase here?
And everybody learns
something specific.
And actually it's the men's
groups and the women's groups
where we actually
begin to identify
some of the challenges.
Men will say things to
men that they'll never
say to women-- even conscious,
spiritually-tuned men.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>KRAMER: And women,
it's the same thing.
And then, the mixed groups,
where everybody's together,
then start to really
do something important.
Because you realize that the
push of the sun through a man
is very important, and the pull
of the lunar through a woman
is very important.
>>REGINA: It's an
electromagnetic universe.
>>KRAMER: Without
those two polarities,
you cannot resolve polarity.
So you have to map
them in the extreme.
And a man and a
woman are delivered
to specifically address
that navigational procedure.
And you don't have to
live with them forever,
and it's not your soulmate
or your great lover in life,
necessarily.
It could be a friend.
It could be a colleague.
It's always a series of people.
It's never one person.
But the opposite feminine
or masculine flow--
usually embodied in the
opposite gender, not always,
but usually-- can show you blind
spots that cannot be seen any
other way.
You cannot do it on your own.
You need the opposites.
And spiritual people often
find I get on with women very,
very well.
And the women say, that's funny,
because I get on with men very,
very well.
And what they're doing is
they're fulfilling themselves
through the examination
of that alternative flow
through the opposite gender.
And it's a spiritual
collaboration,
and it has to be
absolutely seated
in the roots of nature,
which is not represented
in the commercial world at all.
So you have to move
away from that.
>>REGINA: In the
world at large at all.
Yes, absolutely.
>>KRAMER: The world at
large is a commercial world.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: So we have to step
away and say to ourselves,
we're not merchants.
We're not traders.
You may choose to do that,
but that's not our call.
Our call is beings of pioneering
spirit, of exploration,
of color, of texture,
of velocity, of depth.
And that has to be expressed.
There's not sufficient
bandwidth or latitude
to express that as a trader.
And that's what the
system asks us to do.
Success is in trade.
And that's not the human way.
>>REGINA: No.
No.
So let's talk about
where it is-- we've
already talked a
little bit about where
that is our doing
of having created
this empire through
our own negligence,
or just simply by default.
And let's talk about
where it's not.
Because I want to
take that, then,
back into media and a dilemma
I even have in my position
here about this.
So let's talk about
that a little bit.
>>KRAMER: There's people
listening, you know? [LAUGH]
>>REGINA: Yes, I know.
It won't be that personal.
But in order to
change the paradigm,
there have to be examples.
There has to be
something for people
to reach out to and touch with.
And hopefully we do
some of that at GaiamTV.
>>KRAMER: For sure.
>>REGINA: But at large
there has to be that.
But the world is-- the
prevailing paradigm
does not really
allow for any kind
of holistic feminine
message at large.
Is that part of how
empire is created--
>>KRAMER: Yes.
>>REGINA: --to keep the
keep the manipulation going
toward this very linear
way of looking at life?
>>KRAMER: It's to create--
ultimately, a human being is
a sacred androgen, we
say in mysticism, which
is that you are the blend
of the male and the female.
You reproduce yourself.
If you look in the
"Corpus Hermeticum,"
there's this very puzzling text
about if you don't reproduce,
you're doing it wrong.
And people think, oh, gosh.
We have to have
children, then, do we?
Is that we have to do?
That isn't what is meant.
What is meant is the spiritual
androgen recreates themself
and gives birth to themselves.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>KRAMER: Right?
>>REGINA: One is one's
own soulmate, so to speak.
>>KRAMER: Right.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: And what you do is you
look for a reflection of that
in other people, and you
look for a healthy spectrum
of expression in the
vigorous, in the male,
and in the yielding,
in the female,
and in the nourishing
of maternal and paternal
in equal aspect.
And you have to have that.
And so to generate discord and
to deplete light and hemorrhage
this essential essence
of a human being,
the best way to achieve
that is to put them
in doubt of their gender.
And at the moment, it's
very difficult to be a man
and it's very difficult
to be a woman.
And it's one of the great--
kind of ontological problems
with that is one
doesn't know oneself
what it is to be a man
or a woman in these ages.
And what you have
to do, essentially--
and I take my clients
out and do this at times,
is take them out into the forest
and be there for a few days
and have a think about.
And for many people, it's
the very, very first time
that they consider, what is
it that I'm doing being a man?
What is my manliness?
It's not just having a
beard and drinking beer
and throwing an axe
at a piece of wood.
It's something rather more, you
know, complex and interesting
than that.
But there is that, too.
There is that aggression, too,
and there is that destruction,
too, which can be embodied
and transmuted and expressed
in a very appropriate way.
Also, there is the
question of how
does a man have a successful
relationship with a woman?
Monogamy is kind
of not quite it.
Polygamy, or open relationships
or pansexuality-- that's
not quite it.
So the very thing
we do, which is
how do we relate to
each other in a loving
and intimate and committed
and excellent way
is a question that
people can't answer.
They'll say, I don't know.
This is what I do, and I'm
trying my best at this.
And my energy certainly cannot
be directed to one person.
And someone else, for me--
my energies, for example,
are much more happily
directed to one person, which
is very happy for
my wife, of course.
But the nature of what it is,
the very relationship that we
have through this thing
called marriage, for example.
If you're not married,
it's a partner.
It's a civil partnership.
It's crazy.
Or it's a boyfriend
or a girlfriend.
None of those
things are quite it.
>>REGINA: No.
>>KRAMER: So not only do we
have the question of ourselves,
but the very nature of how
we relate to each other
is very confusing for people.
>>REGINA: It is.
And we're having to try to
create new language around it,
even.
>>KRAMER: Mmm.
>>REGINA: And again,
I think disconnecting
from whatever the
prevailing paradigm is seems
to be really essential,
just in starting
to regard relationships
of all kinds in a new way.
There is no way to look at it
that's out there in the media,
so to speak.
There are no larger
reflections of a new way
to construct these very
personal realities at all.
And that gets me back to the
question of the manipulation,
and whether it is unintentional
and happening simply
because they say, hey,
that's what the people want.
That's what they get.
Or whether it is intentional.
It's still keeping this
competitive, old paradigm
alive within the minds of most
individuals on the planet.
It's very hard to disconnect
from media right now.
>>KRAMER: It is.
It is.
You have to understand
that many people look
at the screen and the
page, and it's telling them
this is what you do.
This is how things are.
This is how you're
going to dress.
going to drive.
This is the money
you're going to have.
This is how you're to have--
>>REGINA: Constant imagery.
>>KRAMER: This is how
you're going to eat.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Right.
>>KRAMER: This is how
you're going to have sex.
This is how you're
going to argue.
These are the funny things.
>>REGINA: These are
the acceptable means
of all these things.
>>KRAMER: Right.
And these are the
things you can't say,
and these are
things you can't do.
It doesn't occur to people,
as we said right at the start,
that you can dispense with all
of that and do your own thing.
There's absolutely
nothing stopping
you doing your own thing.
It's rather funny that many
of our big decisions in life
end up in all these
consequences, which life really
is all about-- examining the
ramifications of our choices.
No one really holds a gun to
your head-- or very rarely,
let's hope-- and says,
you must do this.
You must have this in your life.
You must not have
this in your life.
We just do stuff and then
later on, as we acquire wisdom
and as we embody a degree of
illumination in ourselves,
we look back on those decisions
and think, you know what?
All my problems stem
from an ignorant decision
that I made, which was the
best I could do at the time.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: And now I have
to go back and do things--
>>REGINA: Oh, the
domino effect is just
>>KRAMER: --to recalibrate,
reconfigure that.
Because now I wouldn't
have done it that way.
But there's a reason
that stuff happens.
And the key thing,
as ever with this,
is to get to the
young people and say,
you have complete freedom
to do whatever you want,
however you want, whenever
you want-- complete freedom.
And your natural human morality
will keep you safe and sound,
and you won't want
to hurt anyone,
do any silly things like that.
You don't want to pinch and
steal things from people.
Your consent to
give away your power
to this thing, to this empire,
is completely optional.
No one ever holds a gun
to your head to do it.
It's completely optional.
>>REGINA: But that's
what needs to be
made available, is
exactly that thinking.
>>KRAMER: It is.
And this whole--
>>REGINA: I mean,
that's what we're
trying to do here, but en
masse at least, do you mean?
>>KRAMER: And it's called
spiritual development.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: Spiritual
development disconnects you
from that unhealthy,
toxic misconception.
And that's all it
is, a misconception.
>>REGINA: It is.
And going back
for a moment again
to the whole masculine-feminine
dynamic, too.
One of the things I've noticed,
and I alluded to a moment ago,
is in this profession--
I mean, I started out,
I was competing in a
totally male arena.
>>KRAMER: I bet you were.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: But I didn't compete.
I chose not to compete
from the very early stages,
even though I was a
sportscaster in America.
That would put you in--
>>KRAMER: For football
and baseball and--
>>REGINA: Oh, yes.
All of that.
>>KRAMER: Goodness.
Goodness me.
>>REGINA: That's how
I started my career.
And there were only
a handful of women,
and we didn't know each other.
We were spread around,
sprinkled around the country.
And one thing I had
to learn early on
is I can never compete
with those guys.
That's their reality
for a lifetime.
I'm a relative
newcomer, interloper--
whatever you want to call it.
So I learned to
back off and tried
to learn throughout my career
where collaboration is working
better than this kind
of competition, which
is very difficult in the
field of television and media.
My observation is, even in
this whole spiritual arena,
no different than elsewhere.
>>KRAMER: No.
>>REGINA: When you
have the men-- and I
interview mostly men.
Because men will say, this
is my arrow, my focus.
This is what I do.
This is what I know.
And I'm standing here
and I am telling you
about this as an
expert in this field.
Where the women tend to-- they
may have similar knowledge.
But the way it's expressed
is much more diffused,
which is harder to make a
coherent conversation with.
>>KRAMER: Program from.
Yeah.
I know.
>>REGINA: And I think, why don't
I have more women on the show?
It's that reason.
>>KRAMER: That's a
lovely observation.
>>REGINA: They're
brilliant women.
And, in fact, I'll turn to them.
If there's something I'm
really working through in life,
we have a very
complex way of working
through things
that is more whole.
And they'll also
collaborate with each other.
>>KRAMER: It is.
That's a lovely
observation, if I may say.
That's absolutely-- it's funny.
I was talking about
this just the other day
with a number of
excellent women who
gave me the great honor
of coming to an event
that I was hosting.
And that very point
was made seriously.
I'm not just saying this.
But seriously it was
exactly what you just said.
And they described it like this.
They said, a man will come
and say, this is this.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>KRAMER: It's not
something else.
This is this.
And I'm going to
tell you how it is.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KRAMER: And I do that, because
it's part of the male energy
to do that, and to be
incisive and forthright
and to nail a point
down and press it.
They said that theirs was
something rather different,
as you say, which is they hold
a space for something to arise.
And that-- whether it's words or
whether it's thoughts or dreams
or language or body
movement or art--
>>REGINA: And it's
collaborative in nature.
>>KRAMER: It's
So they hold spaces.
And boy oh boy have I
learned that the hard way.
It's so important to
have the female energy.
And again, I emphasize--
not always in women,
but usually, it's so important
to have that female energy,
to create spaces for nourishment
and nurturing and creativity
and insight to arrive.
Men can't do that.
They rely almost exclusively
on reason and on knowledge.
The woman energy
is experiential.
>>REGINA: It is
>>KRAMER: And in
mysticism, that's key.
So many of our great
pagan sages were women.
But they didn't
write anything down.
They didn't care to
write anything down--
>>REGINA: No.
And this is the problem now.
>>KRAMER: --which is kind of
cool and kind of frustrating,
isn't it?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: Because many
of the wisest people
I've met in my life, they
never write anything down.
They wouldn't sit at
this table with you.
They just say things to people
in the world, in the sea,
in the city, in the cafe,
in the forest, wherever,
and that's it.
It's a word.
It's an oral tradition.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: They never
writes it down.
Women are-- tend
to be like that.
Not always.
And I think it's a human,
beautiful, natural expression
of mystical philosophy and
of spiritual investigation.
You don't need to package it
for a logical hour's media
broadcast.
But it has to then--
>>REGINA: But you
understand the conundrum.
>>KRAMER: I
understand it for you.
[LAUGH]
>>REGINA: Someone like
me trying to-- yeah.
You see--
>>KRAMER: Of course.
>>REGINA: --trying to
promote the feminine essence
of communication and
thought and development.
>>KRAMER: Of course.
And what I've
learned is that you
need women who can do that-- who
can switch that masculine dial
and do a fantastic job,
just as good as anyone else,
if not better.
But also, it is incumbent on the
women to create these spaces.
You can't moan about
it if you're not
creating those spaces.
So these women in question,
that I mentioned earlier,
have started to do that
and have identified
a place and a venue
and a schedule
and a way of doing
things with ceremony--
>>REGINA: Oh, good.
Excellent.
>>KRAMER: --and silence
and socializing,
getting together and
hanging out, and also study.
So we've got these
things-- ceremony,
silence, socializing, study.
A very-- one of
them's a C, actually.
>>REGINA: Alliterative.
>>KRAMER: Yes.
Thank you.
Alliteration.
That's the word.
It escaped me
there for a minute.
But that's a way that
they've decided to do it,
to have this group.
And it works, and things
are being created.
And we've seen examples
of it in little ways,
and now it's starting to become
medium-sized and then larger
ways.
And then you would
have this place
open to other women who
want to be part of it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Absolutely.
It, by necessity, has to
be grassroots, so to speak.
>>KRAMER: It has to be.
>>REGINA: So let's go back a
little bit to empire again.
Because one of the things we
were talking about off-camera
is that part of it is also
possible because women and men
alike have been conditioned
to see themselves as subjects
of something else--
>>KRAMER: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: --subject to
someone else's desires,
someone else's rules
and regulations.
So how do you break this
subject position in life?
>>KRAMER: If you
consider yourself
to be subject to anything
else, you are subject to it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Anything else.
>>KRAMER: Anything else at all.
I could list 50 things,
but you get the point.
If you don't consider
yourself subject to it,
then you don't have to be.
OK?
So one classic example
is if you use your name
as a piece of transactive
business with the authorities,
you are consenting to give your
authority from you to them.
And you've already lost it,
every time you use your name.
So there's a whole
legal thing around that
that many of my good friends
and learned colleagues
could wax lyrical about
much better than I can.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: But it's
a principle thing.
Your name?
Well, Neil Kramer.
>>REGINA: Man on the
land, sovereignty things.
Mmhm.
>>KRAMER: Writing?
What does that make?
That's an agreement, a
little fluid contract
that goes out there that
says you can do business
through my person.
One way to counter
that is to not use
your name in that way anymore,
and to use it in different ways
and to use a different name.
So I would be Neil of Portland.
>>REGINA: OK.
I'm Regina of Sedona.
>>KRAMER: Regina of Sedona.
That is your name.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: And not long
ago in modern history,
that's how we did it.
To use the surname is
the piece of business,
is the transaction.
So even when somebody-- I
got stopped the other day
by a very wonderful state
trooper-- thank goodness.
And I was speeding.
And we had a lovely
conversation--
>>REGINA: I got stopped the
other day for the same thing.
>>KRAMER: Did you?
>>REGINA: He was lovely.
His name was Officer Good.
>>KRAMER: Officer Good.
>>REGINA: And he just gave
me a warning and let me off.
>>KRAMER: I got a warning
and he let me off as well.
>>REGINA: Wonderful.
>>KRAMER: We're
just nice people.
Whatever.
But it was really
interesting, because I
tried some of the
techniques out.
And he said, you know,
are you Neil Kramer?
And I said, Neil.
That's what they call me.
The answer yes, again, is
a contract to do business
and to identify myself.
>>REGINA: So by
eliminating the surname.
>>KRAMER: By eliminating the
surname and not saying yes,
I said Neil.
That's what they call me.
And he just sort of went.
Ha.
And he thought I was just
kind of joking, or whatever.
Being respectful, though--
not antagonizing the man.
But that's very important.
If I'd have said, yes.
I am Neil Kramer.
I am then giving my
authority, through the name,
to the agent of the
empire-- who, fortunately,
was a lovely man with
a heart and soul.
Goodness me, that was nice.
And nevertheless, though,
in his capacity as an agent,
if I give him my
authority, I then
give him authority to take
away my sovereign power,
take away my freedom,
put me in handcuffs.
Put me on the trunk
of the car, right?
>>REGINA: But now are you
saying this metaphorically,
or are you saying this lawfully?
>>KRAMER: Nope.
Literally.
>>REGINA: I mean, literally.
>>KRAMER: Literally.
>>REGINA: So by that language
itself in that situation,
he would lose his
legal rights over you.
But he doesn't know that.
>>KRAMER: If you can't identify
that you are that person,
then everything
stops at that point.
And as soon as you either
acknowledge or deny it,
you get into an argument.
There's ways to
do neither, which
is what I was practicing
with this man.
And as it happened,
it had a nice outcome.
It's an example of using a
name not as, yeah, that's me.
I am not my name.
I am not even this
flesh and blood.
I'm not this bone inside.
I'm not even this
beating heart inside.
A spirit flows through
me that's not mine.
There's no necessity for me
to identify with that name,
and yet the system has been
set up, as a simple thing,
to use the name.
So that's a very
simple, easy example
that anyone who's not familiar
with this sovereign movement
of a physical flesh and
blood being completely
separate from their name can
now go and have a look at it
and investigate.
Because it's very interesting--
not just the legalities of it,
but the philosophical
implications to say,
I don't need to do business with
the system through this name.
I can do it on my terms
without using the name.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now, getting into practical
realities of that.
Let's say we need to
make a living-- you know,
the proverbial make a living.
We need money so that we can
pay our rent or buy our food.
So now say maybe we don't
have a skill that we're
aware of that's unique
enough that we can
be a sovereign being and command
money for our unique services,
and, in fact, have to start
somewhere under someone else.
>>KRAMER: Which is almost
everyone, including ourselves.
We have not reached that, so we
are doing other things as well.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
So now, if you want
to work for someone,
you must give them your
name and your tattoo,
or, in other words, your
social security number.
And you are solidly in the
system just to survive.
How does that work?
>>KRAMER: Well, as an
example, the last time
I came here in June,
or whenever it was,
I didn't give you my name,
because my name is not
Neil Kramer.
And I didn't give you my
social security number,
because I don't have one--
so just as an example.
That's not always the case.
And yet I transacted with
this organization, and you,
of course, I know.
But I came here and I
did things in the world,
and I checked into a hotel,
and my name was really not
used during that process.
Did you have a credit card or
any kind of card that you used?
>>KRAMER: I didn't
actually, last time, no.
>>REGINA: So you're
able to do it.
You were going without ID.
>>KRAMER: I gave them a
cash bond in an envelope
and said there's
the whole thing.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>KRAMER: If I dig into
that, I'll take it back.
And if I don't, it's,
you know, whatever.
So there are always
ways to do it,
and we call these
pathways of exemption.
And the question
is, is your pathway
of exemption from
a law worth it?
So if I was to
say, I'm not going
to have a driving license.
I'm not going to
have a passport.
have a credit card.
That would make my life
extremely difficult,
and it would be
difficult to do lots
of things that have great
fulfillment for me personally,
and I believe other
people enjoy them, too.
And it's not worth it.
Right?
But you can start with a small
little pathway of exemption
and try out-- which is
what you've just described.
That's an example of it.
And then you can experiment
with larger ones.
So, for example, being British,
I can decide lots of things
about how I live here.
I can live here as
a resident alien,
which is ironic
in this business.
>>REGINA: Interesting term.
Yeah.
>>KRAMER: Or I can go
through citizenship,
or I can not do that.
I can be here illegally
if I wanted to.
I could do that.
As it happens, I am
a resident alien.
Now, in Oregon,
there are things I
can't do unless I'm a citizen.
So I have to look
at that and think,
is it worth me seeking
a pathway of exemption
to do it in a more
sovereign way or not?
And that's a very
personal choice.
So if I, for example,
wanted to carry a pistol
from the shooting
range across town,
I can't do that as
a resident alien.
I would have to be a citizen.
So I have to look
at that and think,
do I need that piece of paper?
Do I need to become
a citizen to do that?
And the answer,
in my life, is no.
It might be useful,
though, now and again, just
for practical reasons.
I enjoy target
shooting, for example.
In America, you
have to do those.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: You absolutely have to
be involved with these things.
I'm aware of that.
And it's a lot of fun.
But you could make a mistake,
and then it's a felony.
Right?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KRAMER: In Washington,
it's totally different.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KRAMER: It's
totally different.
>>REGINA: Arizona,
>>KRAMER: Arizona, you don't
even need any paperwork.
>>REGINA: Nope.
>>KRAMER: You can just walk
into Walmart, buy an AR-15,
and walk out with it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: Which has its own
consequences, of course,
but it's a very
interesting thing.
So the exemption that you
seek is very personal.
And for me, it's not worth it in
a case like that, for example.
So you have to look
at it individually.
But there's always
a way out of what
you think is the
only path, always.
>>REGINA: OK.
So we'll take the
average citizen that
was branded with
their social security
number from the age of
anywhere from, say, 2 to 15,
16, by the time they got
their driver's license.
So they have their
social security number.
And now they're
seeking employment,
as I mentioned
before, in which you
have to render that to
whoever that person is.
>>KRAMER: Do you?
>>REGINA: Well, to get a
paycheck, for the most part.
>>KRAMER: Do you need a check?
>>REGINA: Well, it
depends on whether or not
the company is large and
willing to do it in cash or not.
>>KRAMER: Right.
Right.
That's a big
question, right off.
>>REGINA: So right here,
you're saying start
asking that question.
Do I want to work for a
company that requires this?
>>KRAMER: Exactly.
Exactly.
So if you go and
work for a regular,
big corporate organization or
corporate-modeled organization,
they will require certain things
or you cannot even walk through
the front door.
If you don't want
to do that, you
could seek a pathway
of exemption.
So I could say, for
example, I'm British.
I don't have a social--
American social security number.
I use the name Neil
Kramer to do business.
And you can pay me cash.
>>REGINA: But let's
say you're an American
and you already have that.
>>KRAMER: And I sit down with
the owner, and he says, OK.
We could do that.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KRAMER: If you're American,
it depends on, of course,
the nature of the organization.
You can always sit down
with the guy and say, look.
I know that you wanted to
have these things as a company
policy.
But in my case, I live a
different kind of life.
I don't want to use the
social security number.
I don't use credit.
I don't use banking
in the usual way.
But I feel that I could be an
asset to this organization.
I have the skills for it.
You can put me on
probation for six months.
I'll prove it to
you, and you pay me
with cash in an envelope.
And all the taxes
are my problem.
As long as you declare
it, that's my problem.
You don't need to
worry about that.
There's no reason why a person
cannot do that-- none at all.
But you have to examine
this principle in Buddhism--
>>REGINA: How
important is it to you.
>>KRAMER: Right livelihood is--
>>REGINA: Oh, yes.
That's where we're
going next in this.
So let's go for it.
>>KRAMER: Right livelihood--
right livelihood
is very important.
You can't just do a job if
you take spiritual development
as a way of life, which
I have chosen to do.
You can't just do a job.
You have to do a
good job that fits
with your conscious
alignment the best you can.
And it keeps
refining a little bit
and a little bit
and a little bit.
If somebody were to work for
a pharmaceuticals company who
were making people
sick with bad medicine,
and torturing animals, that
would be very difficult
for me to classify, in any
way, as right livelihood.
Because the very basis
of what they're doing,
with my consciousness, makes
it an immoral act for me.
With a different kind of
consciousness, where you think,
I'm helping people with oncology
and with people with dialysis
problems with this exciting
new drug that we've done,
and it's really good, and I
think I'm doing something good,
and that is genuinely what
you think-- different rule.
That's OK.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>KRAMER: So the rules change in
relation to your consciousness.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: For me, I
determined for myself,
my private personal
decision, to say,
I will not fund systems
exclusively with my labor that
destroy human expression.
So I haven't achieved
that in its entirety yet,
but I've certainly made headway
into that over the last 10
years from a position
where it was OK.
It was never terrible.
It was OK, to now
it's quite good.
Most of the fruit that I
bring to the table as it were
is good.
And I made it.
I grew it.
And I sell it,
and people buy it.
And sometimes there's
no buying and selling.
Even better when we don't
need that transaction.
We don't really need it.
But we still-- I'm on
the edge of the system.
I can't really live in
a cabin in the woods,
so I need a dollar
in the pocket, right?
So I call that as best I can.
But it's my choice.
I don't have to do any
of it-- nobody does.
So if you wake up and think,
well, hang on a minute.
I've got a mortgage.
I've got three kids.
I've got a wife who
like shoes and handbags.
What the hell am
I supposed to do?
You chose those
kids and that wife
and that situation
and that mortgage.
>>REGINA: OK.
Let's talk about
this for a while,
because this is your choices
versus the consequences
of choices and a lifelong path
that that will put you on.
So let's speak about
that, including children.
>>KRAMER: Every
choice is a moment
of extreme radical
creation in life.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: And people
don't see that.
They think, well, I'll
just put that there
or I'll put it there.
It doesn't really matter.
Every single choice is
critical-- every choice.
In Mesoamerican Shamanism,
they will, for example,
teach that your choice is
a mark of your character.
And your choice is a mark of
your honor and your integrity.
We've used that that
word today, integrity.
And when you get
with somebody, you
can't just meet them in
a bar and sleep with them
and walk away.
Because that's a sign
of something negative.
You can't just be
with a nice person
because you want
to be safe and it's
kind of what your
mom and dad did.
All those things
have consequences.
So as you move into
the spiritual life,
there is a greater
emphasis on what
happens when you make
a choice in the world.
Your consciousness,
when you slide it
into the consciousness
of everything else,
it has a butterfly effect.
You know that phenomena?
It changes everything.
The ripples never cease, right?
And so the whole of life,
in a way, if you were really
to coarsely distill
it, would be to say
that life is an
experiment in examining
the consequences of choices.
And every pain, every disease,
every crisis, every cataclysm
is a result of choice
at a certain level.
And so when you
make a bad choice,
the payload might
not be for 25 years
when it blows up
in your face, think
I don't want to do this anymore.
That's a legitimate thing.
It was the best I
knew at the time.
That's a legitimate thing.
The teaching in it is
how do you resolve it?
So that's what you have to do--
that 25 years of consequence,
you have to resolve.
The next teaching is make
sure, when you make choices
next time, you're very,
very lucid and very clear
in what that is.
Because especially with
people and relationships,
it really powerfully, profoundly
affects how you can be
and how free you are.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And it doesn't mean that it's
going to make it necessarily
any easier a path.
>>KRAMER: No.
No.
>>REGINA: At all.
I mean, to be true to oneself.
I mean, on the deepest levels
of recognizing your own truth,
whether it's-- as you say,
whether it's a choice to go
home with someone
from a bar or whatnot.
>>KRAMER: Absolutely. [LAUGH]
>>REGINA: I mean,
being conscious in each
of these choices in the moment.
And say you are,
and you're trying
to make you feel are
heartfelt choices.
>>KRAMER: It is.
It's--
>>REGINA: It still has its
own problematic element to it.
>>KRAMER: It does.
And if you look at it
from that perspective,
you have to say to yourself,
when you're making a choice,
is this choice aligned
with my growth,
or is this choice
for my pleasure
and my diversion and
my sensual edification?
And that's usually
a good marker.
>>REGINA: It is.
And I think what I
was alluding to is
there are times you make a
choice with the best mind you
have, and then some
unpredictable elements
should come up following that
that are quite painful, even.
Still, there's usually a path
beyond that that is correct,
even if it's not
comfortable in the moment
and you've employed your
best conscious thinking.
>>KRAMER: There is.
There is.
Life continuity throws
dilemmas and quandaries at you
and says, deal with this.
OK.
You broke your leg.
You've gone bankrupt.
OK.
You're getting a divorce.
You've got to go to court.
Unexpected things-- you know,
a freak car accident, where
it looks like you're
guilty and everything
was totally just accidental.
And yet, at the
higher level, that's
still a soul choice to me--
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>KRAMER: --a soul choice
to say, come in and examine
conflict.
Come in and examine a
root teaching of pain.
Why do we use pain as
an impulse for growth?
Is that necessary?
>>REGINA: For most people, yes.
>>KRAMER: For most
people, the answer is yes.
Is it crucial as part
of the teaching of life?
No.
It's optional.
>>REGINA: No.
It is optional.
But that requires such
extreme responsibility
on the front end.
>>KRAMER: It does.
You've got to load yourself
up right at the start
and say every decision
I make profoundly
shapes the whole
of reality for me.
There's no little decisions.
There's no whatevers.
Every whatever has a payload.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And I think part of the issue on
this planet is, in times past,
in our ancient
history, we've had
people who've devoted their
life to clear thinking--
much as what you're doing
in this lifetime now.
And these people were
prominent in society.
The great thinkers and
contemplators and philosophers
were the backbone of a culture.
That's gone.
Now we have sound bytes
from famous 23-year-olds
after they've just been admitted
to rehab for the sixth time,
and that's culture.
>>KRAMER: [LAUGH] Yeah.
>>REGINA: There is no wisdom
where the common media
attention would go, for example.
I keep using media, because
that kind of reflects
reality-- our
unreality here, now.
>>KRAMER: It reflects
our reality, yeah.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about-- our reality.
Let's talk about the role of the
reemergence of the philosopher,
now and into our future,
and how that will happen.
>>KRAMER: All a
philosopher is is
somebody who values
and tries the best
to embody wisdom in life.
We used to have them all
over, and they were simply
called wise elders.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>KRAMER: And they were
in every community.
And particularly from
where I'm from, in Europe,
I know about that in European,
English, Welsh, German,
Spanish, French history.
All communities had wise elders.
That changed radically with
the arrival of mass trade.
And a globalization of a
trade impulse changed that.
Because the communities
started to shape themselves.
Instead of small
localized entities
that were loosely
networked together--
which is the human way,
in my view, a tribal way--
it became monocultures.
And it became
communities of towns
that are just built
because of factories.
>>REGINA: Driven by the
notion of prosperity.
>>KRAMER: Yeah.
That's right.
And in England, in Northern
England, where I come from,
we have many fascinating and sad
and melancholic and wonderful
all mixed up together
examples of towns
that were generated for
cotton factories and mills.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: And steel production.
And when that
manufacturing disappears,
you end up with these
slums and ghettos.
>>REGINA: And
ghost cities, yeah.
>>KRAMER: Ghost towns and
just inhuman ways of life.
And that decimated the
natural equilibrium
of having youth and middle
age and wise elders.
They went away.
So the wise elders no
longer had any reputation
or bearing or credibility.
And it was no longer
considered necessary to be
wise in your elderhood.
And so people stopped bothering.
All that mattered was
the youth and the middle
aged to accumulate wealth.
The wealth wasn't considered
as knowledge and experience.
It was considered
purely and exclusively
as promissory notes.
That was the wealth.
And that came in,
really, after the time,
I would say, of Romanism and
Romanist Christianity, Nicene
Christianity, in about 300 AD.
Before that, it was different.
We had wise elders.
>>REGINA: So that had to
have been a critical turning
point for the whole notion
of the emergence of empire
in a way, too.
>>KRAMER: It was.
Because they said to
change the control game,
rather than having this
immense pressure of control
and huge armies wandering
around the place,
we have to just
restructure society
into a way that devalues
elderhood and wisdom.
And now, if you even try
putting those words out there,
wise old people
are few in number
because it is no
longer a recognized
part of a conscious,
thriving community.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KRAMER: And when I
do find it out there--
which, thank goodness
it still is-- gosh.
It's so wonderful to see it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: Even in my little
coastal community in Oregon,
we have some wise elders.
And they're absolutely priceless
to the people who live there.
And all kinds of
problems they're
dealing with in this
kind of, like in the way
a very wonderful vicar
in an English church
would have this pastoral
role to go and talk
to the young pregnant mother,
to go and talk to the dying man,
to go and talk to
the young man who's
got in trouble with the police.
And people would think,
oh, gosh, you know,
I can't mess around with this
guy because he's so wise.
He's so insightful.
And I can't help
but respect him.
>>REGINA: Well
actually we did have
a reflection of that
in American media.
It was called "The
Andy Griffith Show."
>>KRAMER: [LAUGH] I
don't know that one.
>>REGINA: Well, he
was a policeman,
and he always offered
wise counsel to them--
>>KRAMER: Did he?
>>REGINA: --and worked the
problems out of the town.
>>KRAMER: Did he?
Right.
I'll have to check that out.
>>REGINA: But I hear
what you're saying.
No.
I mean, that's really
how it should be.
So any final thoughts?
We have just a
couple minutes left.
Anything we haven't gotten
to on the notion of empire
and how it continues to
exist throughout the times?
>>KRAMER: Empire is
weak, and empire can only
function with our consent.
Consider for yourself
withdrawing it.
>>REGINA: On that
note, thank you, Neil.
We're going to have another
conversation about withdrawing
and about regaining
our sovereignty.
As we just said, part
two of our conversation
is going to be about regaining
our sovereignty as individuals
on this planet.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on GaiamTV.